# Coexistence with other Nordic SDKs

## nRF5 SDK integration

If you plan to use an example from the nRF5 SDK in combination with the mesh stack, move the mesh stack repository into the Nordic nRF5 SDK examples folder and include the necessary source files in the Nordic nRF5 SDK project that you want to use. 

To do so, make the following changes:
 - Add all `core`, `prov`, `access`, `dfu`, `nrf_mesh_weak.c`, relevant `model` and `example` files, and (if used) `serial` files and their include paths to the Nordic nRF5 SDK project.
 - Remove all functions but `mesh_assert_handler` and `sleep_forever` from the `nrf_mesh_sdk` module if the Nordic nRF5 SDK application already uses the SoftDevice, because they duplicate existing handlers in the Nordic nRF5 SDK.
 - Define `NRF_MESH_LOG_ENABLE` to be ` NRF_LOG_USES_RTT` in `nrf_mesh_config_core.h`, because the logging in the mesh stack relies on RTT.
 - Examples using the module `simple_hal` in the mesh stack may need to be updated to use the Nordic nRF5 SDK module `bsp`. It is possible to use both, but in this case `GPIOTE_IRQHandler` must be removed from one of the files and only one of the modules may register callback functions.
 - If the Nordic nRF5 SDK uses the SoftDevice, make sure that the mesh stack is initialized and enabled after the SoftDevice is enabled. SoftDevice events must be forwarded to the mesh stack. See the *SoftDevice events* section for more information.
    - If `intern_softdevice_events_execute` in `softdevice_handler.c` is used for processing the SoftDevice events (in most Nordic nRF5 SDK applications this is the case), include `nrf_mesh.h` in `softdevice_handler.c` and call `nrf_mesh_on_sd_evt(evt_id)` and `nrf_mesh_on_ble_evt((ble_evt_t*) mp_ble_evt_buffer)` from `intern_softdevice_events_execute` when `sd_evt_get` and `sd_ble_evt_get` return success.
 - Flash storage of network configuration is enabled by default in the mesh stack as well as in some of the Nordic nRF5 SDK applications. The flash areas used for this purpose may overlap and cause errors. To allow safe coexistence of the flash storage module @ref md_doc_libraries_flash_manager in the mesh stack and the flash storage module `fstorage` in the Nordic nRF5 SDK, add the following code block to `nrf_mesh_config_core.h`:
```
#include "fds.h"
#include "fds_internal_defs.h"
#include "section_vars.h"
#include "fstorage.h"
#include "fstorage_internal_defs.h"

#define FLASH_MANAGER_RECOVERY_PAGE ((uint32_t) FS_PAGE_END_ADDR - (FDS_PHY_PAGES + 1) * PAGE_SIZE)
```

If there is no particular nRF5 SDK example that you want to start with, but instead you want to use some of the nRF5 SDK modules, it might be easier to move the respective nRF5 SDK modules into the mesh stack repository and create an example project using one of the methods provided by the mesh stack repository.

### nRF5 SDK NVM storage modules
Using nRF5 SDK modules such as `fstorage`, `pstorage`, or `ble_flash` for writing to flash may be problematic due to long `timeslot` events occupied by the mesh stack. Use the @ref md_doc_libraries_flash_manager module provided by the mesh stack instead.

Furthermore, when writing to flash, ensure to not write or erase areas utilized by the mesh stack modules and the bootloader (if present). By default, the mesh modules utilize the last `x` number of pages before the start of the bootloader, if present, or the last `x` number of pages of the available flash on the Nordic SoC. The value of `x` depends on the configuration of the mesh stack and can be calculated by:
`x = 1 + ACCESS_FLASH_PAGE_COUNT + DSM_FLASH_PAGE_COUNT + NET_FLASH_PAGE_COUNT`

## SoftDevice
### SoftDevice events
The mesh stack relies on receiving the events generated by the SoftDevice for proper functioning. The SoftDevice may generate events relevant only to the application, only to the mesh stack, or both for application and the mesh stack. Therefore, it is important that the SoftDevice events reported via `SD_EVT_IRQHandler` and extracted via `sd_evt_get` and `sd_ble_evt_get` are processed by the mesh stack as well as the relevant application handlers.

The mesh stack implements its own `SD_EVT_IRQHandler` in `nrf_mesh_sdk`, while the nRF5 SDK implements the same handler in softdevice_handler.c as `SOFTDEVICE_EVT_IRQHandler`. Disable the `SD_EVT_IRQHandler` in `nrf_mesh_sdk` (i.e. remove by deleting or commenting out), and first call `nrf_mesh_on_sd_evt` and `nrf_mesh_on_ble_evt` for every SoftDevice event received within the event processing function called by the `SOFTDEVICE_EVT_IRQHandler` (which is `intern_softdevice_events_execute` in  `nrf_mesh_sdk` in most nRF5 SDK applications).

### Concurrent SoftDevice and mesh activity
By design, the SoftDevice activity is prioritized over mesh activity. Therefore, you should keep the connection and advertisement intervals used by the SoftDevice as large as possible (i.e. infrequent) when using Bluetooth low energy connections. If scanning, keep the scan duty cycle as low as possible. You should also reduce mesh activity while the SoftDevice is doing fast advertising and continue normal activity after a connection is established.
