# Migration from v1.0.1 to v2.0.0

This guide describes the migration process from nRF5 SDK for Mesh version 1.0.1 to version 2.0.0.

## Initialization

In v1.0.1, the `nrf_mesh_sdk` and `nrf_mesh_node_config` modules could both be used for initializing
a mesh device, and they had partly overlapping functionality. They have now been replaced by a
single set of non overlapping modules:

- `mesh_stack`: Functions for initializing and starting all mesh stack modules, including the
  foundation models.
- `mesh_softdevice_init`: Function for initializing the SoftDevice.
- `mesh_provisionee`: Simple provisionee support module containing the provisioning related parts of
  the old `nrf_mesh_node_config`, using PB-ADV and static OOB authentication. It is mainly intended
  to be used by the nRF5 SDK for Mesh examples, but it can also be used as a starting point for
  provisioning in a user application.

The initialization code of the examples has now been restructured into an initialization phase and a
start phase, following the same pattern as the nRF5 SDK examples. We strongly advise user
applications to do the same. We have also added an `execution_start()` function to avoid the risk of
race conditions during the start phase.

## Error handling

Following the same pattern as the nRF5 SDK, weak implementations of `app_error_fault_handler`
(in `examples/common/src/app_error_weak.c`) and `mesh_assertion_handler`
(in `examples/common/src/assertion_handler_weak.c`) have been provided. Instead of installing error
handlers as callbacks, these functions are now used directly by the nRF5 SDK for Mesh error
handling. They can be overloaded by the user application if needed.

## nRF5 SDK

Files from the nRF5 SDK are no longer included as part of the nRF5 SDK for Mesh release. Instead,
the user is supposed to download the nRF5 SDK separately and provide a link to the nRF5 SDK
folder when building the mesh code. See [Retrieve nRF SDK](@ref how_to_build_nrf_sdk) for more
details.

## Non backwards compatible API changes

These are API changes that will break an existing application if ignored.

### access.h

- `access_message_tx_t` has two new fields: `force_segmented` and `transmic_size`.
- `access_message_rx_t` now reports richer low-level metadata for incoming packets, replacing
  `meta_data.timestamp` and `meta_data.rssi` with a pointer to a `nrf_mesh_rx_metadata_t` structure.

### access_reliable.h

- `access_reliable_status_t`: New enum value `ACCESS_RELIABLE_TRANSFER_CANCELLED`.

### device_state_manager.h

- `dsm_beacon_secmat_get()` renamed to `dsm_beacon_info_get()`, and type of last parameter has
  changed from `nrf_mesh_beacon_secmat_t` to `nrf_mesh_beacon_info_t`.

### nrf_mesh.h

- `nrf_mesh_init_params_t` (now included in `mesh_stack_init_params_t`): `assertion_handler` field
  removed, `p_uuid` field added.

### nrf_mesh_events.h

- `nrf_mesh_sar_session_cancel_reason_t` (included in `nrf_mesh_evt_t`): New enum value
  `NRF_MESH_SAR_CANCEL_PEER_STARTED_ANOTHER_SESSION`.

### nrf_mesh_prov.h

- `nrf_mesh_prov_listen()`: `bearer_type` parameter changed to `bearer_types`, which is a bitfield
  for the supported bearers. That means that if multiple bearers are supported, you can listen for
  incoming provisioning requests on all of them at the same time.

### nrf_mesh_prov_events.h

- `nrf_mesh_prov_evt_complete_t`: Contains a pointer to a `nrf_mesh_prov_provisioning_data_t`
  structure now instead of a copy of the provisioning data.

### config_client.h:

- `config_client_event_type_t`: New enum value `CONFIG_CLIENT_EVENT_TYPE_CANCELLED`.
- `config_client_composition_data_get()`: Parameter `page_number` added.

### health_client.h:

- `health_client_evt_type_t`: New enum value `HEALTH_CLIENT_EVT_TYPE_CANCELLED`.

### simple_on_off_client.h

- `simple_on_off_status_t`: New enum value `SIMPLE_ON_OFF_STATUS_CANCELLED`.

### nrf_mesh_config_app.h

- File moved from the `mesh/app` folder to the `examples/templates` folder.

## Backwards compatible API changes

These changes are API additions that will not break an existing application if ignored.

### device_state_manager.h

- `dsm_appkey_handle_to_subnet_handle()` function added.

### nrf_mesh.h

- `nrf_mesh_subnet_added()` function added.

### nrf_mesh_events.h

- `nrf_mesh_evt_t` / `nrf_mesh_evt_type_t`: New event types `NRF_MESH_EVT_NET_BEACON_RECEIVED` and
  `NRF_MESH_EVT_FLASH_STABLE`.
- `nrf_mesh_evt_iv_update_notification_t`: `p_network_id` field added.
- `nrf_mesh_evt_key_refresh_notification_t`: `p_network_id` field added.

### config_client.h:

- `config_client_pending_msg_cancel()` function added.

### health_client.h:

- `health_client_pending_msg_cancel()` function added.

### simple_on_off_client.h

- `simple_on_off_client_t`: New field `timeout_cb` added.
- `simple_on_off_client_pending_msg_cancel()` function added.

### simple_on_off_server.h

- `simple_on_off_server_status_publish()` function added.

### access_config.h

- `access_model_publication_stop()` function added.
- `access_model_publication_by_appkey_stop()` function added.
