# Migration from v2.0.1 to v2.2.0

## New source files
The following source files have been added in this release:

### Core
- mesh/core/src/mesh_config.c
- mesh/core/src/mesh_config_backend.c
- mesh/core/src/mesh_config_flashman_glue.c
- mesh/core/src/mesh_opt.c

### Models
- models/model_spec/commn/src/model_common.c

## Removed source files
The following source files have been removed in this release:

### Core
- mesh/core/src/ticker.c

## Models

- Updated model directory structure:
    - Foundation models have been moved to models/foundation:
        - Configuration model moved from `models/config` to `models/foundation/config`
        - Health model moved from `models/health` to `models/foundation/health`
    - Generic models are present in models/model_spec:
        - Common functionality used by the Mesh models: `models/model_spec/common`
        - Generic Default Transition Time model: `models/model_spec/generic_dtt`
        - Generic Level model: `models/model_spec/generic_level`
        - Generic OnOff model: `models/model_spec/generic_onoff`
    - Vendor-specific models have been moved to models/vendor:
        - Simple OnOff model moved from `models/simple_on_off` to `models/vendor/simple_on_off`
    - Experimental models have been moved to models/experimental:
        - Provisioning over Mesh model moved from `models/pb_remote` to `models/experimental/pb_remote`
- The `light_switch` examples and `enocean` example have been updated to use Generic OnOff models.

### Backwards-compatible changes to model API

#### simple_on_off_client.h

- `::SIMPLE_ON_OFF_CLIENT_ACKED_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT` macro definition added.

#### pb_remote_client.h

- `::PB_REMOTE_CLIENT_ACKED_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT` macro definition added.

#### pb_remote_server.h

- `::PB_REMOTE_SERVER_ACKED_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT` macro definition added.

#### health_client.h

- `::HEALTH_CLIENT_ACKED_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT` macro definition added.

#### config_client.h

- `::CONFIG_CLIENT_ACKED_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT` macro definition added.

## Use of the nRF5 SDK's section variables

As of v2.2.0, the nRF5 SDK for Mesh makes use of the nRF5 SDK's section variable module
@link_section_vars.

The required changes for supporting section variables are already in place in the example applications,
but any user applications carried over from the previous release might require modifications to work
correctly, depending on the toolchain used:

### Segger Embedded Studio

The Segger Embedded Studio projects base their section placement on the bundled `flash_placement.xml` file.
The example projects in version 2.2.0 contain updated flash_placement files. If you did not do any modifications
to this file in your migrated project, you can safely replace the existing flash_placement file with
the one in CMake/SES/flash_placement.xml.

If you modified the file, perform the migration manually by adding the following ProgramSection to the `FLASH` MemorySegment:

```xml
<ProgramSection alignment="4" keep="Yes" load="Yes" name=".nrf_mesh_flash"  inputsections="*(SORT(.nrf_mesh_flash.*))" address_symbol="__start_nrf_mesh_flash" end_symbol="__stop_nrf_mesh_flash"/>
```

and the following ProgramSection to the `RAM` MemorySegment:

```xml
<ProgramSection alignment="4" keep="Yes" load="No" name=".nrf_mesh_ram"  inputsections="*(SORT(.nrf_mesh_ram.*))" address_symbol="__start_nrf_mesh_ram" end_symbol="__stop_nrf_mesh_ram"/>
```

Restart Segger Embedded Studio after saving your changes and clean the solution before rebuilding (Build->Clean Solution).


### GCC

When building with GCC, the section variables must be registered in the application's linker script
so that they end up in the right memory area.

All section variables used by mesh go into two new memory sections (one in RAM and one in
flash). These memory sections must be added to the linker script.

The `nrf_mesh_ram`-section must be added to the sections marked with `INSERT AFTER .data`:

```
SECTIONS
{
  . = ALIGN(4);

  /* ...Any other sections */

  .nrf_mesh_ram :
  {
    PROVIDE(__start_nrf_mesh_ram = .);
    KEEP(*(SORT(.nrf_mesh_ram.*)))
    PROVIDE(__stop_nrf_mesh_ram = .);
  } > RAM
} INSERT AFTER .data
```

The `nrf_mesh_flash`-section must be added to the sections marked with `INSERT AFTER .text`:

```
SECTIONS
{
  . = ALIGN(4);

  /* ...Any other sections */

  .nrf_mesh_flash :
  {
    PROVIDE(__start_nrf_mesh_flash = .);
    KEEP(*(SORT(.nrf_mesh_flash.*)))
    PROVIDE(__stop_nrf_mesh_flash = .);
  } > FLASH
} INSERT AFTER .text
```

### ARMCC

When building with ARMCC, no further action is required.


## Mesh runtime options

The mesh runtime options API (@ref NRF_MESH_OPT) has been deprecated in favor of @ref MESH_OPT.
The new API uses the new mesh_config module to store options persistently, so once set,
the options do not have to be reset for the lifetime of the device.

The following options have been migrated to the new API:

| Old option                                               | New option
|----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_PROV_ECDH_OFFLOADING`                      | @ref mesh_opt_prov_ecdh_offloading_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_RELAY_ENABLE`                          | @ref mesh_opt_core_adv_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_RELAY_RETRANSMIT_COUNT`                | @ref mesh_opt_core_adv_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_RELAY_RETRANSMIT_INTERVAL_MS`          | @ref mesh_opt_core_adv_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_RELAY_TX_POWER`                        | @ref mesh_opt_core_tx_power_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_NETWORK_TRANSMIT_COUNT`                | @ref mesh_opt_core_adv_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_NETWORK_TRANSMIT_INTERVAL_MS`          | @ref mesh_opt_core_adv_set
| `NRF_MESH_OPT_NET_NETWORK_TX_POWER`                      | @ref mesh_opt_core_tx_power_set

Note that the transport-layer options are still only present on the old nrf_mesh_opt API. They
will be migrated in the next release.
