# Migration from v2.2.0 to v3.0.0

This migration guide is complementary to the @ref md_RELEASE_NOTES.
It describes practical actions you must take to update your code to a newer
version of the nRF5 SDK for Mesh.

**Table of contents**
- [Added and removed files](@ref migration_300_added_removed)
- [IRQ priority level change](@ref migration_300_irq_priority)
- [Stack separation on high frequency and low frequency time domains](@ref migration_300_stack_separation)
- [Initialization and start phase changes](@ref migration_300_initialization)
- [Only one segmented message from an element to a destination address at a time](@ref migration_300_segmented_messages)
- [Device compile time configuration changes](@ref migration_300_compile_time)
- [New provisioning parameter](@ref migration_300_provisioning)


---


## Added and removed files @anchor migration_300_added_removed

The following files have been added in the v3.0.0 release:
- LPN feature:
	- `mesh/core/src/core_tx_lpn.c`
	- `mesh/core/src/lpn.c`
	- `mesh/core/src/mesh_lpn_subman.c`
- Core:
	- `mesh/core/src/mesh_mem_stdlib.c`
	- `mesh/core/src/timeslot_timer.c`
	- `external/app_timer/app_timer_mesh.c` ([details below](@ref migration_300_stack_separation))
- Common example files:
	- `examples/common/src/app_level.c`
	- `examples/common/src/ble_softdevice_support.c` ([details below](@ref migration_300_initialization))

The following files have been removed in the v3.0.0 release:
- `examples/common/src/mesh_softdevice_init.c` ([details below](@ref migration_300_initialization))

### Required actions
Update your projects accordingly to include or remove these files.


---


## IRQ priority level change @anchor migration_300_irq_priority

The integration with the nRF5 SDK v15.2 caused the following changes:
- The function `softdevice_irq_priority_checker()` has been removed from `mesh_app_utils.h`.
- @ref NRF_MESH_IRQ_PRIORITY_LOWEST has been changed from 7 to 6, which corresponds
to @link_app_irq_priority_low.
- The `nrf_sdh.c` replacement has been removed.

### Required actions
- Go back to using `nrf_sdh.c` in the nRF5 SDK, as the IRQ level fix was upstreamed.
- Make sure that mesh API is called at the same IRQ priority level as it is specified
in the configuration.


---


## Stack separation on high frequency and low frequency time domains @anchor migration_300_stack_separation

Stack has been divided into two time frequency domains:
- High-frequency domain, which is based on the timeslot structure of Soft Device.
Low layers of the stack (advertiser, scanner, bearer etc) are based in this domain to be able
to fit their activities within the provided timeslot.
- Low frequency domain, which is based on app_timer functionality.
app_timer is based on RTC with low frequency source clock (which works independently from MCU clock).
All components above bearer are based in this domain. The reason for this change is that low-power nodes need to
put the MCU to sleep for long periods of time between actions. The slower clock can then wake up the MCU right before it is needed.

Additionally, app_timer API can be used in an application as-is. However, the SDK app_timer abilities are not sufficient
for managing the stack functionality. Extended app_timer with modifications has been added in `external/app_timer`.
Modified version will be compiled and linked to applications (based on stack build system) instead of SDK app_timer.
SDK app_timer API header file should be used as well.

### Required actions
The following define that turns on `app_timer` in the building process must be added to `app_config.h` to make these changes work:

		#define APP_TIMER_ENABLED 1



---


## Initialization and start phase changes @anchor migration_300_initialization

In the initialization phase of the examples, the `mesh_softdevice_init` module has been replaced with the @ref BLE_SOFTDEVICE_SUPPORT.

In the start phase of the examples, the `execution_start()` function has been removed.

### Required actions
Use the function @ref ble_stack_init() to initialize the SoftDevice Handler and the BLE stack,
and to register the Mesh handler for SoC events.

Make sure the function @ref mesh_stack_start() is called at the end of the start phase
(see `start()` function in the Light Switch Server code as an example). After calling @ref mesh_stack_start(), all mesh API interaction
must happen at the IRQ priority level specified in the call to @ref mesh_stack_init(). Calling mesh functions at wrong IRQ priority levels
after enabling the stack can cause unpredictable behavior (see @ref md_doc_introduction_mesh_interrupt_priorities for details).


---


## Only one segmented message from an element to a destination address at a time @anchor migration_300_segmented_messages

The nRF Mesh SDK is now enforcing the Mesh Profile Specification v1.0 rule that disallows multiple
simulatneous segmented messages from a source address to the same destination.

This change means that models must wait until their previous segmented message is finished sending
before they can send another. If multiple models on the same element have the same publish address,
they have to coordinate their publishing as well.

If the application attempts to publish two simultaneous segmented messages with the same source
and destination, the second publish call gets rejected with error code `NRF_ERROR_INVALID_STATE`.

### Required actions
Models that previously scheduled multiple segmented messages in the same context must
instead subscribe to @ref NRF_MESH_EVT_TX_COMPLETE events or set up timers for sending to avoid
the error code.

@note
This change only affects segmented messages, that is messages with @ref access_message_tx_t::force_segmented set to
`true` or messages that are longer than @ref NRF_MESH_UNSEG_PAYLOAD_SIZE_MAX.
Unsegmented messages can be interleaved with both segmented and unsegmented messages of any source
and destination.


---


## Device compile time configuration changes @anchor migration_300_compile_time

Compile time configuration for supported features of the device changed,
which makes `DEVICE_FEATURES`, `MESH_FEATURE_GATT`, `GATT_PROXY` macros outdated.

### Required actions
Make sure you apply the following changes to your code:
- Use @ref MESH_FEATURE_PB_GATT_ENABLED macro instead of `MESH_FEATURE_GATT`.
- Use @ref MESH_FEATURE_GATT_PROXY_ENABLED macro instead of `GATT_PROXY`.
- Use @ref MESH_FEATURE_RELAY_ENABLED, @ref MESH_FEATURE_LPN_ENABLED and
@ref MESH_FEATURE_GATT_PROXY_ENABLED macros to enable or disable required feature
instead of `DEVICE_FEATURES`.


---


## New provisioning parameter @anchor migration_300_provisioning

There is a new parameter `attention_duration_s` for the @ref nrf_mesh_prov_provision() function in `mesh/prov/api/nrf_mesh_prov.h`.
This parameter is required in the provisioning process.

### Required actions
Update all uses of the @ref nrf_mesh_prov_provision() function with the additional `attention_duration_s` argument.